---
layout: post
title: Vim
---

## Resources

* [简明 Vim 练级攻略](http://coolshell.cn/articles/5426.html)
* [超过 130 个你需要了解的 vim 命令](http://www.oschina.net/news/43167/130-essential-vim-commands)
* [Vim学习指南](http://www.oschina.net/translate/learn-vim-progressively)
* [Coming Home to Vim](http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/)
* [Open Vim Tutorial](http://openvim.com/tutorial.html) - Interactive tutorial.


## vimrc

* [The ultimate Vim configuration - vimrc](http://amix.dk/vim/vimrc.html)

Open a window for viewing and setting all options.

    :opt

## Movement

Word

* `w` - words forward.
* `e` - Forward to the end of word.
* `b` - words backward.

Line

* `0` - To the first character of the line.
* `^` - To the first non-blank character of the line.
* `$` - To the end of the line.

Sentence

* `(` - {N} sentences backward.
* `)` - {N} sentences forward.

Paragraph

* `{` - {N} paragraphs backward.
* `}` - {N} paragraphs forward.

Block

* `%` - Find the next item (`(`, `)`, `[`, `]`, `{`, `}`) in this line after or under the cursor and jump to its match.
* `gd` - Goto local Declaration.

Screen

* `H` - To line {N} from top of window.
* `M` - To middle line of window.
* `L` - To line {N} from bottom of window.
* `{count}%` - Go to {count} percentage in the file.

File

* `:{N}` - Goto line {N}.
* `gg` - Goto first line.
* `G` - Goto last line.


## Insert

* `i` - Insert text before the cursor.
* `I` - Insert text before the first non-blank in the line.
* `a` - Append text after the cursor.
* `A` - Append text at the end of the line.

Line

* `o` - Begin a new line below the cursor and insert text.
* `O` - Begin a new line above the cursor and insert text.

## Edit

Character

* `{N}s` - Delete {N} characters and start insert.

Word

* `cw` - Delete a word and start insert.
* `c$`, `C` - Delete from the cursor position to the end of the line and start insert.

Line

* `{N}cc`, `{N}S` - Delete {N} lines and start insert.

## Delete

Character

* `{N}x` - Delete {N} characters under and after the cursor.
* `{N}X` - Delete {N} characters before the cursor.

Word

* `dw` - Cut a word.
* `d$`, `D` - Cut from the cursor position to the end of the line.

Line

* `{N}dd` - Cut {N} lines.

## Copy

Character

* `y{motion}` - Copy {motion} text.

Word

* `yw` - Copy a word.
* `y$` - Copy from the cursor position to the end of the line.

Line

* `{N}yy`, `{N}Y` - Copy {N} lines.
* `yyp` - Duplicate current line.

## Paste

* `p` - Put the text after the cursor {N} times.
* `P` - Put the text before the cursor {N} times.

### Clipboard

* `:registers` - display the contents of all numbered and named registers.
* `:display` - display the contents of all numbered and named registers.


## Search

Character

* `f{char}` - To {N}'th occurrence of {char} to the right.
* `F{char}` - To the {N}'th occurrence of {char} to the left.
* `t{char}` - Till before {N}'th occurrence of {char} to the right.
* `T{char}` - Till after {N}'th occurrence of {char} to the left.

Word

* `*` - Search forward for the {N}'th occurrence of the whole word nearest to the cursor.
* `#` - Search backward for the {N}'th occurrence of the whole word nearest to the cursor.
* `g*` - Search forward for the {N}'th occurrence of the word nearest to the cursor.
* `g#` - Search backward for the {N}'th occurrence of the word nearest to the cursor.

Pattern

* `/{pattern}` - Search forward for the {N}'th occurrence of {pattern}.
* `?{pattern}` - Search backward for the {N}'th previous occurrence of {pattern}.

### Search with case insensitive

The ignore case for search is determined by `ignorecase` option.

Add a `\c` at the end - ignore case, do not use the 'ignorecase' option

    /foo\c


Add a `\C` at the end - match case, do not use the 'ignorecase' option

    /foo\c


### Navigation search results

* `n` - Repeat the latest "/" or "?" {N} times.
* `N` - Repeat the latest "/" or "?" {N} times backward.
* `ggn` - jump to the first match
* `GN` - jump to the last match

### Copy the current word to the command line

    /, CTRL-R, CTRL-W

### List all search results

After searching, an empty search pattern will repeat the last search.

    :g/

### Stop highlighting for the search results

    :noh
    :nohlsearch


## Replace

Character

* `r{char}` - Replace the character under the cursor with {char}.

Pattern - current line

* `:s/{pattern}/{string}/g` - For current line replace a match of {pattern} with {string}.
* `:s/{pattern}/{string}/gc` - For current line replace a match of {pattern} with {string} and confirm before replacing text.

Pattern - whole file

* `:%s/{pattern}/{string}/g` - For each line in the entire document replace a match of {pattern} with {string}.
* `:%s/{pattern}/{string}/g` - For each line in the entire document replace a match of {pattern} with {string} and confirm before replacing text.

### Replace "foo" with "bar" in the current line only.

    :s/foo/bar/g

### Replace "foo" with "bar" in all lines.

    :%s/foo/bar/g

### Delete all trailing whitespace.


    :%s/\s\+$//
    :%s/\s\+$


## Indent

Normal mode

* `{N}<<` - Shift {N} lines one tab leftwards.
* `{N}>>` - Shift {N} lines one tab rightwards.
* `=` - Indent the code within the selection.
* `=%` - Indent the code between parenthesis.

Visual mode

* `{N}<` - Shift the highlighted lines {N} tab leftwards.
* `{N}>` - Shift the highlighted lines {N} tab rightwards.

Insert mode

* `Ctrl-D` - Shift one tab leftwards.
* `Ctrl-T` - Shift one tab rightwards.

## Conversion

### Switch case

Invert Case

* `{N}~` - Switch case of the character under the cursor and move the cursor to the right.
* `g~{motion}` - Switch case of {motion} text.
* `g~w` - Switch case of current word.
* `g~~` - Switch case of current line.

Upper Case

* `gU{motion}` - Make {motion} text uppercase.
* `gUw` - Make current word uppercase.
* `gUU` - Make current line uppercase.

Lower Case

* `gu{motion}` - Make {motion} text lowercase.
* `guw` - Make current word lowercase.
* `guu` - Make current line lowercase.

Capitalize

    TODO

### Convert tabs to spaces

* `:retab {tabstop}` - Replace all sequences of white-space containing a &lt;Tab&gt; with new strings of white-space using the new tabstop value given.

Replace tabs with 4 spaces:

    :retab 4

### End of line

    TODO

### Encoding

    TODO


## Windows

### Closing a window

* `:q` - Quit current window.

### Moving cursor to other windows

* `CTRL-W <Down>` - Move cursor to the window below current one.
* `CTRL-W <Up>` - Move cursor to the window above current one.
* `CTRL-W w` - Move cursor to the next window.

## Other tips

Set filetype based on file extension

    au BufNewFile,BufRead *.md set filetype=markdown

Open file in new tab

    C:/Tools/PortableApps/gVimPortable/gVimPortable.exe --remote-tab-silent "%1"

