---
layout: post
title: QUnit
---

# Introduction

[QUnit Cookbook](http://qunitjs.com/cookbook/)

# Automating Unit Testing

## Asserting Results

`ok(truthy, message)`

`equal(actual, expected, message)`

`deepEqual(actual, expected, message)`

## Synchronous Callbacks

`expect()` is used to define the number of assertions a test contains.

    test("a test", count, function() {
        var body = $("body");

        body.on("click", function() {
            ok(true, "body was clicked!");
        });

        body.trigger("click");
    });


## Asynchronous Callbacks

Asynchronous callbacks conflict with the way the test runner queues and executes tests.

    asyncTest("asynchronous test: one second later", 1, function() {
        setTimeout(function() {
            ok(true, "Passed and ready to resume!");
            start();
        }, 1000);
    });

## Testing User Actions

    test("keylogger api behavior", function() {
        var doc = $(document);
        var keys = KeyLogger(doc);

        // trigger event
        var event = $.Event("keydown");
        event.keyCode = 9;
        doc.trigger(event);

        // verify expected behavior
        equal(keys.log[0], 9, "correct key was logged");
    });

If this not enough, you have a few framework options that help simulating user events:

* [syn](https://github.com/jupiterjs/syn) - Used by FuncUnit which is based on QUnit.
* [JSRobot](https://github.com/ephox/JSRobot/) - This allows the keystroke to trigger the built-in browser behaviour which isn't otherwise possible.
* [DOH Robot](http://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.8/util/dohrobot.html) - This gets you the closest to "real" browser events, but uses Java applets for that.

## Keeping Tests Atomic

QUnit will reset the elements inside the `#qunit-fixture` element after each test, removing any events that may have existed. As long as you use elements only within this fixture, you don't have to manually clean up after your tests to keep them atomic.

## Grouping Tests

You can use the `module()` function to group tests together.

    module("group a", {
        setup: function() {
            ok(true, "one extra assert per test");
        },
        teardown: function() {
            ok(true, "and one extra assert after each test");
        }
    });
    test("a basic test example 1", function() {
        ok(true, "this test is fine");
    });
    test("a basic test example 2", function() {
        ok(true, "this test is fine");
    });

    module("group ba");
    test("a basic test example 3", function() {
        ok(true, "this test is fine");
    });
    test("a basic test example 4", function() {
        ok(true, "this test is fine");
    });

## Efficient Development

Whenever a test fails, QUnit stores the name of that test in `sessionStorage`. The next time you run a testsuite, that failing test will run before all other tests. The output order isn't affected, only the execution order.

