---
layout: post
title: CDFS
---

## ISO 9660

### Specifications

* CD-ROM Mode 1, usually used for computer data, 2048 bytes of user data.
* CD-ROM Mode 2 Form 1, usually used for computer data, has the same user data and error correction as Mode 1, but with a slightly different layout.
* CD-ROM Mode 2 Form 2, intended to be used for error-tolerant data such as audio and video. Video CDs are classified as Mode 2 Form 2.

### Restrictions

#### File and directory name restrictions

* Level 1: 11 characters, 8.3 format
* Level 2: 31 characters
* Level X: 219 characters

#### Directory depth limit

* 8 directory levels, including the root directory
* 255 characters in path

#### File size limit

4 GiB for a single file.

### ISO 9660:1999

ISO 9660:1999 is the latest update to the ISO 9660 standard. It improves on the restrictions imposed by the older standard.

* Allow more than 8 directory levels
* Allow more than 255 characters in path
* Allow files without extensions
* Allow file exceeding size limit by using multiple extents

## Joliet

It is defined as an extension to the ISO 9660 standard. Its primary focus is the relaxation of the filename restrictions inherent with full ISO 9660 compliance.

### Restrictions

#### File and directory name restrictions

* Level 1: 64 characters
* Level X: 110 characters

## UDF

Universal Disk Format

### Revisions

* Revision 1.02
* Revision 1.50
* Revision 2.00
* Revision 2.01
* Revision 2.50
* Revision 2.60

### Packet writing

### Builds

* Plain build
* VAT build
* Spared (RW) build

### Compatibility

Windows XP supports UDF 1.02, 1.5, and 2.01.

