---
layout: post
title: Node.js
---

## Installation

## npm

### Proxy

    $ npm config set proxy http://proxy.sin.sap.corp:8080
    $ npm config list
    $ npm config get proxy
    $ npm config delete proxy

### Version

[Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/)

[node-semver](https://github.com/isaacs/node-semver) - The semantic versioner for npm

Ranges

* `1.2.3` - A specific version.
* `>1.2.3` - Greater than a specific version.
* `<1.2.3` - Less than a specific version.
* `>=1.2.3` - Greater than or equal to.
* `<=1.2.3` - Less than or equal to.
* `1.2.3 - 2.3.4` := `>=1.2.3 <= 2.3.4`
* `~1.2.3` := `>=1.2.3-0 < 1.3.0-0` "Reasonably close to 1.2.3".
* `^1.2.3` := `>=1.2.3-0 < 2.0.0-0` "Compatible close to 1.2.3".
* `1.2.x` := `>=1.2.0-0 < 1.3.0-0` "Any version starting with 1.2".

## Yeoman

[Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/) - Yeoman scaffolds out a new application, writing your Grunt configuration and pulling in relevant Grunt tasks and Bower dependencies that you might need for your build.

Install Yeoman. This will install Grunt and Bower automatically.

    $ npm install -g yo

    $ npm install -g yo grunt-cli bower

Install web app generator

    $ npm install -g generator-webpp

    $ yo webapp                     # scaffold out a skeleton web app project
    $ bower install underscore      # install a dependency for your project from Bower
    $ grunt                         # build the application for deployment

Install angular generator

    $ npm install -g generator-angular

    $ yo angular

The project structure

    -- app/
        |-- bower-components/
    -- node_modules/
    -- test/
    -- .bowerrc
    -- .editorconfig
    -- .gitattributes
    -- .gitignore
    -- .jshintrc
    -- bower.json
    -- Gruntfile.js
    -- package.json

* `package.json` - It helps npm to idenify our project as well as to manage all of its dependencies.
* `node_modules` - This is where all the node modules that your project depends on are stored.
* `Gruntfile.js` - It is a javascript file that is responsible for configuring your project as well as any tasks or plugins that your project requires.
* `bower.json` - It is used to inform the Bower package manager of your projects dependencies as well as other metadata.
* `.bowerrc` - It is used to pass general config options to bower.

## Bower

[Bower](http://bower.io/) is used for dependency management, so that you no longer have to manually download and manage your scripts.

### Configuration

### Proxy

`.bowerrc`

    {
        "proxy": "http://localhost:8087",
        "https-proxy": "http://localhost:8087",
        "directory": "app/bower_components"
    }


### Usage

Search packages

    $ bower search underscore

List all the installed packages.

    $ bower list

Install packages according to `bower.json`

    $ bower install

Add a package to `bower.json`

    $ bower install --save underscore

* `-S`, `--save` - Save installed packages into the project's `bower.json` `dependencies`.
* `-D`, `--save-dev` - Save installed packages into the project's `bower.json` `devDendencies`.


Remove a package

    $ bower uninstall underscore

Update a package

    $ bower update underscore

Using bower's cache

    $ bower install underscore --offline
    $ bower cache list
    $ bower cache clean

## Grunt

[Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) is used to build, preview and test your project

`Gruntfile.js` with `package.json`

### Install Grunt

    $ npm install -g grunt-cli
    $ npm install

### Configure Tasks

    TODO

### Run Grunt

Build

    $ grunt

Force to continue to build and skip errors

    $ grunt --force

Clean

    $ grunt clean

Run test

    $ grunt test

Run server

    $ grunt serve

