---
layout: post
title: UI Text
---

* [UI Text Guidelines](https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/fiorisuite/UI+Text+Guidelines+for+Fiori)

## UI Text Guidelines

### Spelling Conventions

- Favorite - Write in US English (no "u").

### Hyphenation

* Email - "Email" for button labels and "email" in sentence style texts
* To Do List
* Text Wrap - Do not add manual hyphens to wrap texts for tiles or column headings

### Style

* Contractions - Contractions should be limited to "can't" or "don't" in message texts as needed.

### Word Choice

* Log in/Login - Use Log In and Log Out for button labels.
  - Button Label: Log In
  - Button Label: Log Out
  - Message text: Log into your app
  - Message text: Enter your User ID on the Login screen
* Save vs Submit vs Send
  - Save: Use where no workflow is triggered, just saving changes
  - Submit: Use for more formal decisions requiring manager approval.
  - Send: Use for employee request apps (everyday language), where you are making a request to another person, for example, a vacation request.
* Remove vs Delete
  - Remove: Use when the reference to an item is deleted. To remove selected contacts from a distribution list.
  - Delete: Use when the item itself is deleted. To delete an order you no longer want to process.
* Cancel - Exit the current screen or action without saving changes.
* New - Options on a screen containing a list of items, users can create a new object, or select an existing one.
* Copy - Create a new object based on an existing one.
  - *Do not use* Duplicate.
* Approve + Reject - To respond to requests that imply permission. Approve or reject a leave request.
* Accept + Decline - To respond to requests that imply offers or invitations. Accept or Decline a meeting invitation.
* Finish - Use this for a button label to trigger the completion of a workflow or process.
  - *Do not use* Done.
* Show Details vs View Details
  - Clicking **Show Details** shows more information on the *same* page, for example a message long text. Hide Details would hide the message long text again.
  - Clicking **View Details*, for example, on a chart, opens a dialog or separate window with more information about the chart.
* Show More - To expand a list or screen area.
* Show Less - To collapse a list or screen area.
* Show All - To show all the items in a list.
* Open <App Name> - To navigate from one app to another.
* OData Service - Use a hyphen for translation in to German.

### Titles and Headings

* Full Screen - Use an active formulation to reflect the action the user is performing.
* Detail Screen - Existing Object - Use the **item or business object** as the heading. Do not use a verb. e.g., Purchase Order.
* Detail Screen - New Object - If a new object is being created, use **New + item or business object** as the heading. Do not use a verb. e.g., New Purchase Order.
* Detail Screen - Edit Object - If an existing object is being edited, use **Edit + item or business object**. e.g., Edit Purchase Order.
* Nav Bar Headings - Write navigation bar headings in title case with # items in brackets. e.g., Tasks (20).
* UPPER CASE - *Do not use* UPPER CASE for any texts. UPPER CASE is set where required by the CSS.
* Subheading for a list of apps in the Quick Info popup - In a quick overview dialog containing a list of related apps, use the subheading **Related Apps**.

### Abbreviations

* Using abbreviations
  - Ensure that you always have the 3 form factors (phone, tablet, desktop) in mind.
  - Limit your use of abbreviations as far as possible to avoid unnecessary abbreviations appearing on the desktop, where space is generally sufficient.
  - Abbreviate by dropping full words in a noun string rather than cutting off each individual noun.
  - Test your screens on all three device types to ensure that you see the labels live in each case. Optimize as required and as far as space allows.
  - If you shorten the string, add the full term as a comment in B0Y (or ask development to add it in the properties file).
* Quantity - *Do no use* the abbreviated form Qty. Abbreviations in other languages do no work. If space allows on the screen, spell out the full word.

### Unit of Measurement

Units of measurement came from a customer-specific table so we had no control over these.

If this applies for your app, you will not be able to change the text (though you may want to have the text changed in the demo landscape to make the app look better).

* If you can control the text, write unit of measurement in full if you can, and abbreviate if you can't (taking care to be consistent across the app).
* If you need to abbreviate, ask dev team to include the full text in the comment, or add a comment yourself when you review your source texts in B0Y.

### Currencies

Use the 3-letter abbreviation for the currency instead of the symbol as many currencies can share the same symbol. e.g., USD, EUR.

### Dates and Times

Follow the S&G for your language. e.g., July 20, 2013 and 15:30.

### User Interface Elements

* Blank Fields - Leave fields without a value blank - do no display N/A.
* Button and Field Labels
  - Write button and field labels in title case.
  - Use active verb formulations for buttons, including buttons that bring you to another application.
* Hint Text - Hint text in field should be in sentence style. e.g., Add note.
* Screen Areas
  - **In app abstracts:** avoid describing app at navigation level, so no need to mention screen areas. Focus on what app does and not how it does it. Navigation details could also change with later UI5 versions.
  - **For techinical texts:** Use the naming in the Design Wiki. This will be added under central component.
* Tooltips
  - Tooltips will only apprear on the desktop, and not on mobile/touchscreen devices.
  - Tooltips created for truncated labels may need to be reworked later. Only use tooltips as a last resort.
  - Use tooltips to show the labels for **elements that have no text**, such as icons.
  - You may use tooltips to show the full label for **elements that are abbreviated or are likely to be truncated** on the desktop. If the available space is only just sufficient for English, you may create a tooltip to allow for abbreviated or truncated texts in other languages.
  - Do no create (redundant) tooltips for field labels that are written out in full and visible on the desktop.
  - Do no use tooltips to give explanations.

### Message/Confirmation Dialogs

* Periods
  - Write message texts in sentence style.
  - Use a period at the end of complete sentences.
  - Use periods for messages that consist of two or more sentences.
  - *Do no use* semicolons to separate phrases in a message text. Instead use two separate sentences ending with periods.
* Quotes - Use double quotes if you need to set off names or values from the rest of the message text.
* Variables - Use a single string for messages including variables to ensure text is translated as a single string and correct word order is used in translated languages.
  - {0} of {1}
  - Approved on {0} by {1}
  - {0} days ago
* Plurals - In general, stick to the rule: 1 text = 1 usage
  - Do not use a plural if the value can be both singular and plural - ask development to create separate texts for singular and plural cases.
  - Do not use parentheses to express the plural - It might not work in all languages.
  - Be careful with adjectives
  - 1 day overdue
  - 2 days overdue
* Please - Use "please" judiciously
  - Do not use "please" unless you would also use it naturally in a spoken conversation. e.g., Too many results. Refine your search.
  - Consider using "please" if you are inconveniencing the user.
  - Base your decision on your target group and language.

### Punctuation Marks

* Ampersands - *Do not use* ampersands in apps.
* Ellipsis
  - Only use the ellipsis in the following cases:
    + The user is waiting for the system to do something. This should normally be depicted by a graphical "busy indicator", rather than a  text.
    + A menu item leads to a set of further selection options.
  - *Do not use* the ellipsis for input prompts (aka placeholders) in entry fields. These are texts that disappear as soon as the user starts typing or selects a value.
  - Formatting texts with ellipsis:
    + Use sentence style. e.g., Loading...
    + But: Capitalize short prepositions preceding the ellipsis. e.g., Open In...
    + There is no space between the last letter and the ellipsis.
* Colons
  - Colons in Field Labels
    + Colon is added automatically for forms only.
    + If the field label and value from a phrase (no space in between), do not use a colon, and use lower case if there are ending prepositions. e.g. Forwarded by James.
    + If the field label and value are clearly separate (i.e. do no form a phrase), use a colon and use title case if there are ending prepositions.  e.g. Valid From: 09/13/2013
  - Colon as Separator
    + Use a colon to separate concatenated texts that would otherwise be hard to translate. e.g. Search In: Sales Orders
    + If possible, avoid concatenate texts in the first place.
* Symbols
  - You can use common symbols, such as `%`, but avoid more technical or mathematical symbols, such as `<`, `>`, `=`.
  - Avoid using symbols that can have multiple meanings (for example `#` can be a number, a metadata tag, or a phone extension number).
  - Bear in mind that symbols can be difficult to translate.
* Quotation Marks
  - In messages:
    + Only use quotation marks in messages if you really need them. For example, numerical values will be easier to read without quotes.
    + If you need to set off text variables in messages, use double quotation marks. e.g. Product "Computer XYZ" has been deleted
  - In titles and lists:
    + Avoid using quotation marks for concatenated texts with text variables. Use a colon instead. If in doubt, check with your translation team. e.g. Select: Products
    + If possible, avoid concatenated texts in the first place.

