# Gerrit

## Best Practices

1. Create a new feature branch for each new feature and bug-fix (delete the local `master` branch).
2. Take always `origin/master` as basis to create new feature branch.
3. Always do a fetch before you create a new feature branch.
4. Generate a Chang-ID for every new commit.
5. Always write into the commit message why the changes are done (not what is done).
6. Avoid dependencies on changes that have not been submitted yet.
7. Never rewrite a commit that has already been submitted in the central repository.
8. When working with Gerrit favor rebase over merge to resolve path conflicts (that avoids extra merge commits).
9. Do not version jar files in your git repository, store them on Nexus.


## Migrate an existing git repository to Gerrit

### Access Control in Gerrit

- `refs/*`
  - Owner
    - `project_owners`
  - Forge Committer Identity
    - `project_integrators`

- `refs/heads/*`
  - Create Reference
    - `project_integrators`
  - Push
    - `project_integrators`
    - `project_owners`, Force Push
  - Label Code-Review
    - `project_committers` - -2 to +2
  - Label Verified
    - `project_committers` - -1 to +1
  - Submit
    - `project_committers`

- `refs/for/refs/heads/master`
  - Push (Exclusive)
    - ALLOW, `project_backend_developers`

- `refs/for/refs/heads/ui-dev`
  - Push (Exclusive)
    - ALLOW, `project_frontend_developers`


### Rewrite branch commits

Use `filter-branch` command to rewrites all commits in current branch to match the provided user and update tags accordingly.

    $ git filter-branch --env-filter 'GIT_COMMITTER_NAME="Roger Xu"; GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL="joe.test@test.org";'

### Push to Gerrit repository

Configure the remote `origin` and push all branches of your local repository to the server.

    $ git config remote.origin.url ssh://<userid>@gerrit.example.com:29418/path/to/repo.git

    $ git push origin master:master
    $ git push origin rel-1.0:rel-1.0


### Delete remote branch

[Deleting your master branch](http://matthew-brett.github.io/pydagogue/gh_delete_master.html)

Create a new local branch and delete local `master` branch

    $ git branch placeholder
    $ git checkout placeholder
    $ git branch -D master

Delete remote `master` branch

    $ git push origin --delete master

Got error

    remote: error: By default, deleting the current branch is denied, because the next

    remote: error: 'git clone' won't result in any file checked out,
    causing confusion.
    remote: error:
    remote: error: You can set 'receive.denyDeleteCurrent' configuration variable to
    remote: error: 'warn' or 'ignore' in the remote repository to allow deleting the
    remote: error: current branch, with or without a warning message.
    remote: error:
    remote: error: To squelch this message, you can set it to 'refuse'.
    remote: error: refusing to delete the current branch: refs/heads/master
    To ssh://server_name/git/repository.git
    ! [remote rejected] master (deletion of the current branch prohibited)
    error: failed to push some refs to 'ssh://server_name/git/repository.git'

Set git config on remote repository

    $ git config --local receive.denyDeleteCurrent warn


## Install Commit Message Hook

[Gerrit Cide Review - Change-Ids](https://gerrit-documentation.storage.googleapis.com/Documentation/2.9/user-changeid.html)

Gerrit needs to identify commits that belong to the same review. For instance, when a change needs to be modified, a second commit can be uploaded to address the reported issues. Gerrit allows attaching those 2 commits to the same change, and relies upon a Change-Id line at the bottom of a commit message to do so. With this Change-Id, Gerrit can automatically associate a new version of a change back to its original review, even across cherry-picks and rebases.

To be picked up by Gerrit, a Change-Id line must be in the footer (last paragraph) of a commit message.

Change-Ids are created at commit time on the client side. A standard `commit-msg` hook is provided by Gerrit, and can be installed in the local Git repository to automatically generate and insert a Change-Id line during git commit, when none is defined yet.

To install the hook, copy it from Gerrit's daemon by executing the following commands while being in the root directory of the local Git repository:

    $ scp -p -P 29418 john.doe@gerrit.example.com:hooks/commit-msg .git/hooks/


Create a `.gitreview` file in the repository.

```
[gerrit]
host=<userid>@gerrit.example.com
port=29418
project=path/to/repo.git
defaultbranch=master
defaultremote=origin
defaultrebase=0
```

## Push to Code Review

The contributors don't have the permission to push directly into a branch, bypassing the code review in Gerrit. They have to push change to the Gerrit magic branch for code review.

### Gerrit Draft Review

Drafts do not kick off builds or tests. This is nice since it doesn't burden central build and make infrastructure.

To create a new draft review change, push to the project's magical `refs/drafts/<branch>` ref.

    $ git push origin HEAD:refs/drafts/<branch>

Drafts cannot be submitted for merge.
- If you want to change a draft to a review, you will need to publish your draft for review.
  - This converts Gerrit Draft to normal Gerrit Review (State on web interface changes from Draft to New)
  - This can be done with web interface by clicking the publish button
  - Once review is published, it irreversibly becomes a normal Gerrit review and cannot be made back into a draft.

- If you don't want this draft to become a review, you can delete it later with "delete draft change" button.

Any individuals will need to be specifically added as a reviewer to the draft review or they will not be able to see the review. Just forwarding a link to the review will not work.


### Gerrit Publish Review

To create new changes for review, simply push to the project's magical `refs/for/<branch>` ref.

    $ git push origin HEAD:refs/for/<branch>

Each commit will become a new change on Gerrit. Gerrit detects the parent-child relations of the commits and marks the corresponding changes as dependent.

## Code Review

### Doing a Code Review - Best Practices

Thing on which a reviewer should comment include:

* bugs / incorrect code
* usability issues
* performance issues
* bad code structure / bad design
* formatting issues / spelling mistakes
* code which is difficult to maintain
* unnecessary or unrelated code changes
* the commit message if it's not saying what the feature is about and what the motivation for it was
* existing code which still has to be adapted for the proposed feature

In addition a reviewer might
* provide own ideas related to the proposed feature
* ask questions about unclear code
* ask questions about the motivation for certain changes
* list reasons againstthe proposed feature
* propose to split the change if it addresses serveral issues at once

Doing a Code Review is not only about reviewing the code changes in the sense of just looking at them, but ideally you should also download the change and try out the proposed feature. For all issues that you find while trying out a feature you should try to find the corresponding code and comment there.

### Voting on a change - Best Practices

1. Voting in the Code Review category:

The voting in the Code Review category is to express a formal opinion about the code change based on a Code Review. In working practice even for minor issues (e.g. spelling mistake, errors with whitespaces) the '-1 I would prefer that you didn't submit this' is often used. This means the `-1` in the Code Review category should not be considered as something bad, but can often be understood like good change with some minor issues.

2. Voting in the Verified category:

The Verified category is for voting whether the code compiles and all unit tests pass successfully. Within our project it is recommended to setup a Jenkins job that automatically builds and tests each change pushed to Gerrit and that then does the voting in the Verified category based on the build result.

## Fetching a Change from Gerrit to Your Local Git Repository

Sometimes you may want to fetch a change, made by somebody else, from Gerrit to your local Git repository.

* you want to build and test the change
* the original author is on holidays and you want to fix some issues found in this change without waiting for the author
* you want to develop another feature that will have a dependency on the feature contained in the fetched change

The term change is Gerrit terminology. In Gerrit a change consists of:

* one or more patch-sets
* other data like: owner, comments, etc...

A patch-set is actually a Git branch containing a Git commit. It means fetching a remote branch that represents that patch-set.

fetch

    $ git fetch ssh://<userid>@gerrit.example.com:29418/sandbox/demo.git refs/changes/91/53891/1
    $ git checkout -b issue-1 FETCH_HEAD

The `fetch` command didn't create any local branch, it only brought the commit containing the change to the local repository and set the symbolic reference `FETCH_HEAD` to point to that commit. Therefore, we use the `FETCH_HEAD` as the parameter for `checkout` command.

Since `FETCH_HEAD` wasn't pointing to any local branch, the `checkout` command has informed us that after the checkout, `HEAD` is not on any branch. While this is a perfectly valid scenario you have to keep in mind that, if you want to perform further changes based on the fetched change you need to create a local branch based on `FETCH_HEAD` and check it out.


## Share unfinished changes with other users

There are several possibilities to share unfinished changes with other users

1. upload your commit for code review and mark the change as RFC (request for comments)
  * mark your change as RFC by adding the prefix 'RFC:' in front of the title line in the commit change.
  * you may give a negative vote on your own change to prevent an accidental submit of your unfinished change
  * other users can comment on your unfinished change and fetch it from Gerrit

2. upload your commit to your sandbox

3. export your commit as patch and send the patch file to the other user
  * to create a patch file use the `git format-patch` command
  * to apply a patch file use the `git apply` command

4. directly push your commit to the repository of another user
  * for this you need to have direct access to the other users repository
